# Data Modeling with Postgres

## Overview
A startup called Sparkify wants to analyze the data they've been collecting on songs and user activity on their new music streaming app. 
The analytics team is particularly interested in understanding what songs users are listening to. 
Currently, they don't have an easy way to query their data, which resides in a directory of JSON logs on user activity on the app, 
as well as a directory with JSON metadata on the songs in their app.

In this project, you'll apply what you've learned on data modeling with Postgres and build an ETL pipeline using Python. 
To complete the project, you will need to define fact and dimension tables for a star schema for a particular analytic focus, 
and write an ETL pipeline that transfers data from files in two local directories into these tables in Postgres using Python and SQL.

## Project Datasets

### Song Dataset
The first dataset is a subset of real data from the Million Song Dataset.
For example : song_data/A/A/B/TRAABJL12903CDCF1A.json

{"num_songs": 1, "artist_id": "ARJIE2Y1187B994AB7", "artist_latitude": null, "artist_longitude": null, "artist_location": "", "artist_name": "Line Renaud", "song_id": "SOUPIRU12A6D4FA1E1", "title": "Der Kleine Dompfaff", "duration": 152.92036, "year": 0}

### Log Dataset
The second dataset consists of log files in JSON format generated by this event simulator based on the songs in the dataset above.
For example : log_data/2018/11/2018-11-12-events.json

{"artist": null, "auth": "Logged In", "firstName": "Walter", "gender": "M", "itemInSession": 0, "lastName": "Frye", "length": null, "level": "free", "location": "San Francisco-Oakland-Hayward, CA", "method": "GET","page": "Home", "registration": 1540919166796.0, "sessionId": 38, "song": null, "status": 200, "ts": 1541105830796, "userAgent": "\"Mozilla\/5.0 (Macintosh; Intel Mac OS X 10_9_4) AppleWebKit\/537.36 (KHTML, like Gecko) Chrome\/36.0.1985.143 Safari\/537.36\"", "userId": "39"}

## Schema
Fact Table
songplays : records in log data associated with song plays i.e. records with page NextSong
columns : songplay_id, start_time, user_id, level, song_id, artist_id, session_id, location, user_agent


Dimension Tables
users : users in the app
columns : user_id, first_name, last_name, gender, level

songs : songs in music database
columns : song_id, title, artist_id, year, duration

artists : artists in music database
columns : artist_id, name, location, latitude, longitude

time : timestamps of records in songplays broken down into specific units
columns : start_time, hour, day, week, month, year, weekday

## Project Template
test.ipynb : displays the first few rows of each table to let you check your database.
create_tables.py : drops and creates your tables. You run this file to reset your tables before each time you run your ETL scripts.
etl.ipynb : reads and processes a single file from song_data and log_data and loads the data into your tables. 
            This notebook contains detailed instructions on the ETL process for each of the tables.
etl.py : reads and processes files from song_data and log_data and loads them into your tables. You can fill this out based on your work in the ETL notebook.
sql_queries.py : contains all your sql queries, and is imported into the last three files above.
README.md : provides discussion on your project.

## Instruction 
1. create_tables.py
2. etl.ipynb #in jupyter notebook

or

1. create_tables.py
2. etl.py #in python terminal

## FAQs
song_id and artist_id in songplays table are null